Contribute MyST-NB with jupytext (#48)
numpy/numpy-tutorials: content/pairing.md

---
jupytext:
  formats: ipynb,md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.12
    jupytext_version: 1.6.0
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
---

# Pairing Jupyter notebooks and MyST-NB

## What you'll do
This guide will keep a Jupyter notebook synced _or paired_ between
`.ipynb` and `.md`. 

## What you'll learn
- The difference between Jupyter's json format and MyST-NB's markdown
  format
- The benefits and drawbacks of json and markdown
- How to keep `.ipynb` and `.md` files in sync

## What you'll need
- [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/)
- [Jupytext](https://jupytext.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)

---
## Background

The [NumPy tutorials](https://github.com/numpy/numpy-tutorials) are
reviewed and executed as [MyST-NB](https://myst-nb.readthedocs.io/)

> notebooks.  Content is easier to review in this markdown format. You can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
notebooks. Content is easier to review in this markdown format. You can
```

keep your `.ipynb` in sync with the content on NumPy tutorials. The
NumPy tutorials use
[Jupytext](https://jupytext.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) to
convert your `.ipynb` file to [MyST
Markdown](https://github.com/mwouts/jupytext/blob/master/docs/formats.md#myst-markdown)
format.

> Jupyter notebooks are stored on your disk in a
> [json](https://www.json.org/json-en.html) format. The json format is

Reviewer: I would suggest adding this link 

`https://nbformat.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format_description.html`

instead of the json one to this paragraph, might be more useful for less experienced users.

```suggestion
Jupyter notebooks are stored on your disk in a
[json format](https://nbformat.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format_description.html). The json format is
```

very powerful and allows you to store almost any input and output that

> Python libraries can create. The drawback is that json is difficult to
> read and compare files. 

Reviewer: This may be a nit, but it is not necessarily hard to compare json files. The difficulty here is seeing the final rendered notebook for the json file, which is a problem specific to notebooks and not inherent to json files. You may want to reword this, but here's a suggestion:

```suggestion
Python libraries can create. The drawback is that it is hard to see and compare changes made in the notebook file when reviewing pull requests, because this means the reviewers are looking only at the raw json files. 
```

Author: I think that's a nice distinction to make, thanks @melissawm.

  {
   "cell_type": "code",
   "execution_count": 1,
   "metadata": {},
   "outputs": [
    {
     "name": "stdout",
     "output_type": "stream",
     "text": [
      "x =  4\n"
     ]
    }
   ],
   "source": [
    "x = 2 + 2\n",
    "print('x = ', x)"
   ]
  }
 ],
 "metadata": {
  "kernelspec": {
   "display_name": "Python 3",
   "language": "python",
   "name": "python3"
  },
  "language_info": {
   "codemirror_mode": {
    "name": "ipython",
    "version": 3
   },
   "file_extension": ".py",
   "mimetype": "text/x-python",
   "name": "python",
   "nbconvert_exporter": "python",
   "pygments_lexer": "ipython3",
   "version": "3.8.3"
  }
 },
 "nbformat": 4,
 "nbformat_minor": 4
}
```

</td>

<td>

````
---
jupytext:
  formats: ipynb,md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.12
    jupytext_version: 1.6.0
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
---

This code calculates 2+2 and prints the output

```{code-cell} ipython3
x = 2 + 2
print('x = ', x)
```
````
</td>
</tr>
</table>

The MyST-NB `.md` is much shorter, but it does not save the output `4`.

## Pair your notebook files `.ipynb` and `.md`

> When you submit a Jupyter notebook to NumPy tutorials, we will convert

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you submit a Jupyter notebook to NumPy tutorials, we (the reviewers) will convert
```

or the command line:
<ul>
<details>
    <summary>
        <b>1. Classic Jupyter Jupytext pairing</b>.
    </summary>
    <img src="01-classic.gif" width=80% height=80%>
</details>
    
<details>
    <summary>
        <b>2. Jupyter Lab Jupytext pairing</b>
    </summary>
    <img src="02-jupyterlab.gif" width=80% height=80%>
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
		<b>3. Command line Jupytext pairing</b>
    </summary>
  <pre><code>
  jupytext --set-formats ipynb,myst notebook.ipynb
  </pre></code>
  Then, update either the MyST markdown or notebook file:
  <pre><code>
  jupytext --sync notebook.ipynb
  </pre></code>
</details>
</ul>

> __Note:__ With Jupytext installed, the classic Jupyter interface will
> automatically open MyST files as notebooks. In JupyterLab, you can
> right-click and choose "Open With -> Notebook" to open as a notebook.
> The outputs of your code cells are only saved in the `.ipynb` file.

## Wrapping up

In this tutorial, you saw the json `.ipynb` and MyST-NB `.md` raw code 
to create Jupyter notebooks. You can use both formats to create
tutorials. Now you can work in either a simple text editor like VIM

> or emacs or continue building notebooks in your browser. Jupytext can

Reviewer: Very nit: I think some people may object to your suggestion of vim or emacs as simple text editors :)

Author: haha! 
simple _text_ editor as opposed to a simple _text editor_. 

This was a conversation I first had in grad school: vim/emacs are editors for simple text i.e. ASCII characters. I would agree, they are not _simple_. 

Maybe cut out the _simple_?

Reviewer: I think this is the last change before we merge this; I'd suggest something like *plain text editor*.
